IDLI:
Without rava:
1.Soak the (moong/urad/chana) "   " dal and (fenugreek/mustard) "   " seeds together in enough water for 3 hours and drain.
2.Blend the "   " dal and "    " seeds together in a mixer till smooth and frothy (add water little by little as required ) remove and keep aside.
3.Soak the rice in enough water for 3 hours and drain. Blend the rice in a mixer till smooth. Remove and keep aside.
4.Combine the urad dal paste and rice paste together in a bowl and cover and keep aside to ferment overnight.

With rava:
1.Combine the semolina, buttermilk, 2 tbsp of oil and salt together in a bowl. Keep aside for 30 minutes.
2.Heat 1 tbsp of oil in a small pan and add the urad dal, chana dal and mustard seeds.
3.When the seeds crackle, add the coconut, green chillies and curry leaves and sauté for a few seconds.
4.Pour the tempering over the semolina batter and mix well and cover and keep aside to ferment overnight.


5.If any vegetables: Add the (carrots, cabbage, ginger-green chilli paste, besan and coriander) "   " vegtables and mix well.
6.Once the batter is fermented add salt to the batter and mix well.
7.Put spoonfuls of the batter into greased idli moulds and steam for 10 to 12 minutes.
8.Repeat with the remaining batter to make more idlis. Serve hot with fried coconut chutney and sambhar.

If rava without curd/buttermilk:
1.Clean, wash and soak the idli rava and beaten rice in water for at least 2 hours. Clean, wash the urad dal thoroughly and soak it in water for at least 2 hours.
2.Drain the idli rava and rice, combine together and blend in a mixer to a smooth batter.
3.Drain and blend the urad dal separately to a smooth paste using a little water.
4.Combine the two batters, add salt and mix well. Cover and keep aside to ferment for 6 to 8 hours.


PAKODE/BHAJIA:
batter,main,sprinkle
3,1,4
1.Combine * along with ½ cup of water in a bowl and mix well to make the batter.
2.Heat the oil in a deep kadhai, dip each cube/slice of " " in the batter and deep-fry 8 to 10 at a time on a high flame till they turn golden brown in colour from all the sides.
3.Remove and sprinkle a pinch of * on top of the batter-coated cubes/slices
4.Repeat step 2 to make more pakodas/bhajias.
5.Drain on absorbent paper and serve immediately with the chutney of your choice.



ROTI/NAAN:
If roti:
1.Combine all the ingredients in a deep bowl, mix well and knead to make a semi-stiff smooth using enough water. Cover and keep aside for at least 10 to 15 minutes.
2.Divide the dough into 4 equal portions and keep aside.
3.Divide the stuffing into 4 equal portions and keep aside.
4.Roll out a portion of the dough into a 100 mm. (4”) diameter circle using a little wheat flour.
5.Place a portion of the stuffing in the centre, fold the edges towards the centre and seal well so the stuffing doesn’t spill out.
6.Roll out again into 125 mm. (5”) diameter circle using a little wheat flour.


If naan:
1.Combine the yeast, sugar and 5 tbsp of lukewarm water in a bowl, mix gently and cover with a lid and keep aside for 4 to 5 minutes.
2.Combine all the ingredients (plain flour, yeast-sugar mixture, phudin paste, curds, oil) and salt and in a deep bowl and knead into a soft dough using little water.
3.Cover the dough with a lid or wet muslin cloth and allow it prove till it increases in volume slightly (approx. 30 minutes).
4.Divide the dough into 6 equal portions.


7.Heat a non-stick tava (griddle) and cook each roti/naan, using a little oil, till golden brown spots appear on both the sides.
8.a)Repeat steps 2 to 5 to make 3 more rotis. Serve immediately.
8.b)Brush each naan with a little butter and serve immediately.



KHICHDI:
Heat the ghee/oil in a pressure cooker and add the cumin seeds. When the seeds crackle, add the garlic and ginger and sauté on a medium flame for 1 minute. Add the onions and sauté on a medium flame for 1 minute.
Add the (green chilli/garlic) "  " paste and (chilli/turmeric/ coriander-cumin seeds) "   " powder and sauté on a medium flame for a few seconds.
If any vegetables: Add the cabbage, cauliflower, potatoes,peanuts, curry leaves, tomatoes and green peas and sauté on a medium flame for 2 minutes.
Add the rice/oats and (yellow moong) "   " dal and pulses sauté on a medium flame for 2 to 3 minutes
Add 1½ cups of hot water and salt, mix well and pressure cook for 2 whistles.
Allow the steam to escape before opening the lid.
Serve immediately with low-fat curds.


DOSA:



KADHI:

KHEER/PAYASAM:
1.Heat the milk in a broad non-stick pan and cook on a medium flame for 5 to 6 minutes or till it starts boiling, while stirring occasionally.
Heat the ghee in a broad non-stick pan, add the (lotus)" " seeds and sauté on a medium flame for 3 to 4 minutes or till they turn crisp. Remove from the flame, allow it to cool and blend in a mixer to a coarse powder. Keep aside.
Add the coarsely crushed (lotus) "  "seeds, mix well and cook for 19 minutes or till the milk has reduced to half, while stirring and scraping the sides of the pan occasionally.
Boil the milk in a deep non-stick pan, add the sugar, mix well and cook on a high flame for 2 minutes or till the sugar dissolves, while stirring continuously.  
  Serve chilled.